OK so pushing on with our dictionary methods we have three more to talk about.
So the first one is pop and if you remember back to the list methods video when we talked about pop
it was a way to remove an item from a list.
So the same thing in a dictionary but it's a bit different in that we have to provide the key of what
we want to remove.
So we have to provide the key like this right here.
The Pop A and D is this dictionary.
It's then going to remove the key value pair where the key is.
So then we end up with C and B and that's it.
And also if you try and pop something that doesn't exist in there like e it will give you an error.
So here is an example we have instructors still perfect.
Let's say I want to remove Owen's dog because my dog sadly passed away.
Let's do instructor dot pop owns underscore dog and it returns true because that is the value that has
been removed the corresponding value.
Just like with a list when we pop something.
If you remember we could remove it.
But then the second thing you said it returned the value of what was removed.
So in a dictionary it doesn't return the key because we're giving it the key.
So we already have that.
But it does return the value and if we look at instr. again.
Now on dog is gone.
And unlike a list where we could pop we could do something like.
Pop and not pass anything in and it would just pick the last thing that doesn't work in a dictionary
because there's no order.
So if I just try instr. up pop I get an error expected at least when arguments got zero.
Same thing.
Get a different error but if I try and remove something that doesn't exist like e-mail I get a key error
because it can't find anything with the key of e-mail.
So if we did want to just randomly delete something even though there is no order like a list if you
just wanted to remove anything from a dictionary enter pop item.
So pop item does just that.
We don't provide any data to it.
We don't pass a key.
It will just pick something at random to remove from a dictionary.
So here we go instructor.
Pop item.
And so it removed the key 44 which was set to my favorite number.
We could do it one more time and this time it removed is hilarious.
Which was set to false.
And if you look at instructor both of those are gone.
And if I did try and pass something in like I wanted to remove name it gets mad at me and says Hey Pop
item takes no arguments and you gave me one.
So that's pretty much it to pop item.
It will remove something at random.
Oh and as for what this is here we'll learn in the next section.
It's not a list and it's not a dictionary.
It's something else.
Lastly we have updated.
So what update will do is it will take a list and update a set of keys and values into another list.
So let me just show an example here.
Here we have first which is a dictionary the same one we've been working with is one B is to and so
on.
And then we have an empty dictionary set to a variable named second.
And if I do second update first what it will do is take everything in first and add it to second.
So let's take a look now.
It doesn't look like your instructor still has a couple of properties in there.
So let me make another variable and this one I will call person and person I won't just make it empty
let me add one thing in here like let's do City which is going to be sent to San Francisco too much.
Let's do Antigua in Guatemala.
OK.
Just like that.
And if I run person update instructor what it's going to do is take all these key value pairs from instructor
and add them into person.
So it won't overwrite city and remove it.
But if we look at person now it contained city Antigua and then name and of course his favorite language
and instructor is unchanged.
I should also mention though if we do change something let's say in person I changed name and I reset
it to rather than cold.
How about we go with a Velia like this.
And I look at person now name is Velia if I run update again it will overwrite name and change it to
the name from person.
So it doesn't just add values and keys and values that aren't there.
It will also overwrite the ones that are there.
So for that person now its name is back to cold.
And last note about it if I tried to do you know person that update and they give an empty dictionary.
OK person.
It doesn't do anything.
So it's not going to remove things.
It's only going to be additive or updated updated.
It's going to edit the properties and overwrite them but it won't remove them if we pass in an empty
dictionary or something that contains fewer properties.
OK so that update.
We also saw a pop item to get rid of a random key value in a dictionary and pop which forces us to specify
what we want to remove by giving a key.
And that wraps up these two videos on dictionary methods.
Next we're going to go in a slightly different direction.
Take a break from the slide and just looking at new methods and syntax we're actually going to try modeling
something a bit more complex using nested lists and dictionaries to model playlists.
From my spotify account.